# CO2_Sleipner
Neural network-based CO2 interpretation for 4D Sleipner seismic images

## Abstract
Time-lapse or 4D seismic survey is a crucial monitoring tool for CO$_2$ geological sequestration. Conventional time-lapse interpretation provides detailed characterization of CO$_2$ distribution in the storage unit. However, the process is labour-intensive and hard to keep interpretation consistency throughout the monitoring history, due to the inevitable interpreter subjectivity and the long term nature of CCS project. Moreover, reliable interpretation is based on adequate match between the baseline and time-lapse datasets, requiring much data processing effort. We propose a neural network (NN)-based interpretation directly from 4D seismic images to the corresponding 3D probability of CO$_2$ distribution. We use a simplified 3D U-net, whose training, validation and test are all based on the publicly available datasets from the Sleipner CO$_2$ storage project. The limited labels for training are derived from the interpreted CO$_2$ plume outlines within the internal sandstone layers for 2010. Then we apply the trained NN on different time-lapse seismic datasets from 1999 to 2010. The results suggest that our NN-based CO$_2$ interpretation has the following advantages: (1) high interpretation efficiency by providing an automatic end-to-end mapping; (2) robustness against the processing-caused mismatch between the baseline and time-lapse inputs, which can potentially relax the baseline reprocessing demands for newly acquired or reprocessed time-lapse datasets; and (3) inherent interpretation consistency throughout multi-vintage datasets. Qualitative analysis for the NN interpretation standards shows that both amplitude difference and event similarity contribute to the determination of CO$_2$ distribution. We also compare 2D and 3D U-Nets under scenario where only sparse 2D slice labels are available for training. The results suggest that 3D U-Net provide high-quality interpretation at the cost of large
computational resources for training and application, in comparison with 2D U-Net.
